src/topics/academia-doom-spiral.md, before:

---
title: "Is Academia in a Doom Spiral?"
description: "Applying corporate Line Must Go Up logic to Academia is going to kill many institutions"
date: 2024-08-02 22:59:43.10 -4
tags:
  - Academia
  - Higher Ed
  - Youth
  - Economy
---

## Signs pointing to dropping capabilities to fund Higher Ed

- https://www.bestcolleges.com/news/analysis/looming-enrollment-cliff-poses-serious-threat-to-colleges/
- https://fivethirtyeight.com/features/more-high-school-grads-decide-college-isnt-worth-it/
- https://gmufourthestate.com/2013/09/03/shrinking-support-raises-questions-about-higher-education-funding-priorities-in-virginia/
- https://www.pbs.org/newshour/education/most-americans-dont-realize-state-funding-for-higher-ed-fell-by-billions
- https://www.newsweek.com/2022/10/07/generation-covid-record-numbers-youth-opt-out-college-work-1746793.html
- https://www.fastcompany.com/91165756/cost-of-going-to-college-university-higher-education-worth-it-gen-z-parents
- https://www.forbes.com/sites/brandonbusteed/2020/08/07/20-of-harvards-first-year-class-has-deferred/
- https://medium.com/@mv576/black-swan-small-colleges-face-closing-because-of-ed-department-incompetence-0e0abe3ad5f1
- https://www.fastcompany.com/91245055/higher-education-crisis-more-colleges-closing-by-2029-ivy-league-thrives

## Affordability

- https://www.nytimes.com/2012/12/23/education/poor-students-struggle-as-class-plays-a-greater-role-in-success.html
- https://www.cbpp.org/research/funding-down-tuition-up
- https://www.wsj.com/articles/yale-georgetown-other-top-schools-illegally-collude-to-limit-student-financial-aid-lawsuit-alleges-11641829659
- https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/16-ivy-league-elite-universities-sued-alleged-financial-aid-conspiracy-rcna11643
- https://www.wsj.com/articles/nyu-college-graduate-parent-student-loans-11639618241?st=6sj737t3xhm3s0k

## Individual Failures

- https://slate.com/human-interest/2023/08/west-virginia-university-cuts-programs.html
- https://vtdigger.org/2023/10/02/vermont-state-university-president-recommends-cutting-10-degree-programs-and-up-to-33-faculty-positions/
- https://www.inquirer.com/education/uarts-abruptly-closing-june-loss-accreditation-20240531.html
- https://www.kmbc.com/article/mizzou-to-close-2-dorms-because-of-enrollment-drop/3693236
- https://www.phillymag.com/news/2023/09/02/temple-university-controversy/

## Downstream Impacts

- https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2019/08/death-college-newspapers/595849/

## Threads

- https://x.com/Chronotope/status/1698484122904084524
- https://x.com/Chronotope/status/1818998601093091342
- https://x.com/Chronotope/status/1481044302084153347

Commit message:

Academia death spiral preview image

src/topics/academia-doom-spiral.md, after:

---
title: "Is Academia in a Doom Spiral?"
description: "Applying corporate Line Must Go Up logic to Academia is going to kill many institutions"
date: 2024-08-02 22:59:43.10 -4
tags:
  - Academia
  - Higher Ed
  - Youth
  - Economy
featuredImage: "cambridge-university.jpg"
featuredImageCredit: '"Cambridge University" by foshie is marked with CC BY.'
featuredImageLink: "https://flic.kr/p/awfTt5"
featuredImageAlt: '"Cambridge University" by foshie portrays an image of an old-world university with pale yellow-brown brick and grass yard.'
featuredImageCaption: "Academia meets business, and the results are for the worse."
---

## Signs pointing to dropping capabilities to fund Higher Ed

- https://www.bestcolleges.com/news/analysis/looming-enrollment-cliff-poses-serious-threat-to-colleges/
- https://fivethirtyeight.com/features/more-high-school-grads-decide-college-isnt-worth-it/
- https://gmufourthestate.com/2013/09/03/shrinking-support-raises-questions-about-higher-education-funding-priorities-in-virginia/
- https://www.pbs.org/newshour/education/most-americans-dont-realize-state-funding-for-higher-ed-fell-by-billions
- https://www.newsweek.com/2022/10/07/generation-covid-record-numbers-youth-opt-out-college-work-1746793.html
- https://www.fastcompany.com/91165756/cost-of-going-to-college-university-higher-education-worth-it-gen-z-parents
- https://www.forbes.com/sites/brandonbusteed/2020/08/07/20-of-harvards-first-year-class-has-deferred/
- https://medium.com/@mv576/black-swan-small-colleges-face-closing-because-of-ed-department-incompetence-0e0abe3ad5f1
- https://www.fastcompany.com/91245055/higher-education-crisis-more-colleges-closing-by-2029-ivy-league-thrives

## Affordability

- https://www.nytimes.com/2012/12/23/education/poor-students-struggle-as-class-plays-a-greater-role-in-success.html
- https://www.cbpp.org/research/funding-down-tuition-up
- https://www.wsj.com/articles/yale-georgetown-other-top-schools-illegally-collude-to-limit-student-financial-aid-lawsuit-alleges-11641829659
- https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/16-ivy-league-elite-universities-sued-alleged-financial-aid-conspiracy-rcna11643
- https://www.wsj.com/articles/nyu-college-graduate-parent-student-loans-11639618241?st=6sj737t3xhm3s0k

## Individual Failures

- https://slate.com/human-interest/2023/08/west-virginia-university-cuts-programs.html
- https://vtdigger.org/2023/10/02/vermont-state-university-president-recommends-cutting-10-degree-programs-and-up-to-33-faculty-positions/
- https://www.inquirer.com/education/uarts-abruptly-closing-june-loss-accreditation-20240531.html
- https://www.kmbc.com/article/mizzou-to-close-2-dorms-because-of-enrollment-drop/3693236
- https://www.phillymag.com/news/2023/09/02/temple-university-controversy/

## Downstream Impacts

- https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2019/08/death-college-newspapers/595849/

## Threads

- https://x.com/Chronotope/status/1698484122904084524
- https://x.com/Chronotope/status/1818998601093091342
- https://x.com/Chronotope/status/1481044302084153347
