src/topics/law-enforcement-and-data.md, before:

---
title: "Understanding Law Enforcement's Use of User Data"
description: "Systems intended for ad targeting and UX optimization have become a target of law enforcement. Here are a collection of sources on this."
date: 2022-05-05 09:59:43.10 -4
tags:
  - Privacy
  - Compliance
  - Tech
  - Law Enforcement
  - Data
  - User Data
featuredImage: "privacy-phone.jpg"
featuredImageCredit: '"data privacy" by stockcatalog is marked with CC BY 2.0.'
featuredImageLink: "https://www.flickr.com/photos/151691693@N02/41234382652"
featuredImageAlt: '"data privacy" by stockcatalog portrays a human hand holding a phone with a blue screen showing a padlock and key icon.'
featuredImageCaption: "What happens when the government wants inside your phone?"
---

Systems intended for ad targeting and UX optimization have become a target of law enforcement. This Context Check examines how that works and why.

<br /><br /><br />

## Links

### Unexpected Systems Acquire User Data

https://www.theverge.com/2022/5/2/23045250/mozilla-mental-health-app-privacy-analysis
https://www.consumerreports.org/health-privacy/what-your-period-tracker-app-knows-about-you-a8701683935/
https://www.washingtonpost.com/technology/2019/04/10/tracking-your-pregnancy-an-app-may-be-more-public-than-you-think/

<p><a href="https://www.nytimes.com/2022/01/11/style/facebook-womens-sexual-health-advertising.html" target="_blank">https://www.nytimes.com/2022/01/11/style/facebook-womens-sexual-health-advertising.html</a></p>

https://www.brennancenter.org/our-work/research-reports/social-media-surveillance-us-government
https://themarkup.org/privacy/2022/01/27/gay-bi-dating-app-muslim-prayer-apps-sold-data-on-peoples-location-to-a-controversial-data-broker
https://gizmodo.com/your-weather-app-is-selling-you-out-1845052421
https://www.vox.com/explainers/2019/5/7/18273355/angry-birds-phone-games-data-collection-candy-crush

<p><a href="https://www.nytimes.com/2017/12/28/business/media/alphonso-app-tracking.html" target="_blank">https://www.nytimes.com/2017/12/28/business/media/alphonso-app-tracking.html</a></p>



### Data Brokers

https://www.vice.com/en/article/m7vzjb/location-data-abortion-clinics-safegraph-planned-parenthood
https://www.washingtonpost.com/technology/2021/11/10/data-broker-shared-billions-phone-location-records-with-dc-government-part-covid-tracking-effort/
https://www.wired.com/story/opinion-data-brokers-know-where-you-are-and-want-to-sell-that-intel/
https://www.lawfareblog.com/data-brokers-and-national-security
https://issues.org/data-brokers-police-surveillance/
http://blogs.luc.edu/compliance/?p=4075
https://themarkup.org/privacy/2022/04/01/following-markup-investigation-u-s-regulators-questioned-life360s-data-practices
https://themarkup.org/privacy/2022/03/21/lawsuit-highlights-how-little-control-brokers-have-over-location-data
https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/12/19/opinion/location-tracking-cell-phone.html
https://www.vice.com/en/article/gygx7y/your-anonymous-browsing-data-isnt-actually-anonymous
https://www.vice.com/en/article/epnmvz/industry-unmasks-at-scale-maid-to-pii


### How Law Enforcement Acquires Your Data

https://cdt.org/insights/report-legal-loopholes-and-data-for-dollars-how-law-enforcement-and-intelligence-agencies-are-buying-your-data-from-brokers/
https://www.upturn.org/work/mass-extraction/
https://www.vice.com/en/article/k7qyv3/customs-border-protection-venntel-location-data-dhs
https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2022/apr/04/us-law-enforcement-agencies-access-your-data-apple-meta
https://techcrunch.com/2021/04/21/data-brokers-bill-wyden-paul-privacy-clearview/
https://www.vice.com/en/article/jgqm5x/us-military-location-data-xmode-locate-x
https://theintercept.com/2019/12/22/ice-social-media-surveillance/
https://www.theverge.com/2020/6/25/21303190/congress-data-smartphone-tracking-fbi-security-privacy
https://www.vice.com/en/article/m7vymn/cdc-tracked-phones-location-data-curfews
https://gizmodo.com/law-enforcement-is-buying-its-way-into-our-breaches-1844306733

### Abortion and User Data

https://www.onlineabortionresources.org/blog/protecting-yourself-from-criminalization-for-self-managed-abortion
https://www.motherjones.com/politics/2022/02/meet-abortion-bans-new-best-friend-your-phone/
https://www.washingtonpost.com/technology/2022/05/04/abortion-digital-privacy/
https://jezebel.com/a-data-firm-is-tracking-people-who-visit-abortion-clini-1848875722
https://twitter.com/swodinsky/status/1521938727009927170

### Fighting Back

https://gizmodo.com/your-phone-is-a-goldmine-of-hidden-data-for-cops-heres-1843817740
https://twitter.com/swodinsky/status/1521940021485449216
https://gizmodo.com/how-to-cop-proof-your-phone-before-heading-to-a-protest-1843828887
https://twitter.com/swodinsky/status/1521351334339002369

Commit message:

Add new image for law enforcement and data

src/topics/law-enforcement-and-data.md, after:

---
title: "Understanding Law Enforcement's Use of User Data"
description: "Systems intended for ad targeting and UX optimization have become a target of law enforcement. Here are a collection of sources on this."
date: 2022-05-05 09:59:43.10 -4
tags:
  - Privacy
  - Compliance
  - Tech
  - Law Enforcement
  - Data
  - User Data
featuredImage: "law-enforcement-mech.jpg"
featuredImageCredit: '"Law enforcement mech" by RG&B is marked with CC BY-NC-ND 2.0.'
featuredImageLink: "https://www.flickr.com/photos/34943347@N04/5531895119"
featuredImageAlt: '"Law enforcement mech" by RG&B portrays a LEGO construction of what looks like a law enforcement vehicle if it were shaped with legs and arms like a Sci-Fi mech.'
featuredImageCaption: "What happens when the government wants inside your phone?"
---

Systems intended for ad targeting and UX optimization have become a target of law enforcement. This Context Check examines how that works and why.

<br /><br /><br />

## Links

### Unexpected Systems Acquire User Data

https://www.theverge.com/2022/5/2/23045250/mozilla-mental-health-app-privacy-analysis
https://www.consumerreports.org/health-privacy/what-your-period-tracker-app-knows-about-you-a8701683935/
https://www.washingtonpost.com/technology/2019/04/10/tracking-your-pregnancy-an-app-may-be-more-public-than-you-think/

<p><a href="https://www.nytimes.com/2022/01/11/style/facebook-womens-sexual-health-advertising.html" target="_blank">https://www.nytimes.com/2022/01/11/style/facebook-womens-sexual-health-advertising.html</a></p>

https://www.brennancenter.org/our-work/research-reports/social-media-surveillance-us-government
https://themarkup.org/privacy/2022/01/27/gay-bi-dating-app-muslim-prayer-apps-sold-data-on-peoples-location-to-a-controversial-data-broker
https://gizmodo.com/your-weather-app-is-selling-you-out-1845052421
https://www.vox.com/explainers/2019/5/7/18273355/angry-birds-phone-games-data-collection-candy-crush

<p><a href="https://www.nytimes.com/2017/12/28/business/media/alphonso-app-tracking.html" target="_blank">https://www.nytimes.com/2017/12/28/business/media/alphonso-app-tracking.html</a></p>



### Data Brokers

https://www.vice.com/en/article/m7vzjb/location-data-abortion-clinics-safegraph-planned-parenthood
https://www.washingtonpost.com/technology/2021/11/10/data-broker-shared-billions-phone-location-records-with-dc-government-part-covid-tracking-effort/
https://www.wired.com/story/opinion-data-brokers-know-where-you-are-and-want-to-sell-that-intel/
https://www.lawfareblog.com/data-brokers-and-national-security
https://issues.org/data-brokers-police-surveillance/
http://blogs.luc.edu/compliance/?p=4075
https://themarkup.org/privacy/2022/04/01/following-markup-investigation-u-s-regulators-questioned-life360s-data-practices
https://themarkup.org/privacy/2022/03/21/lawsuit-highlights-how-little-control-brokers-have-over-location-data
https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/12/19/opinion/location-tracking-cell-phone.html
https://www.vice.com/en/article/gygx7y/your-anonymous-browsing-data-isnt-actually-anonymous
https://www.vice.com/en/article/epnmvz/industry-unmasks-at-scale-maid-to-pii


### How Law Enforcement Acquires Your Data

https://cdt.org/insights/report-legal-loopholes-and-data-for-dollars-how-law-enforcement-and-intelligence-agencies-are-buying-your-data-from-brokers/
https://www.upturn.org/work/mass-extraction/
https://www.vice.com/en/article/k7qyv3/customs-border-protection-venntel-location-data-dhs
https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2022/apr/04/us-law-enforcement-agencies-access-your-data-apple-meta
https://techcrunch.com/2021/04/21/data-brokers-bill-wyden-paul-privacy-clearview/
https://www.vice.com/en/article/jgqm5x/us-military-location-data-xmode-locate-x
https://theintercept.com/2019/12/22/ice-social-media-surveillance/
https://www.theverge.com/2020/6/25/21303190/congress-data-smartphone-tracking-fbi-security-privacy
https://www.vice.com/en/article/m7vymn/cdc-tracked-phones-location-data-curfews
https://gizmodo.com/law-enforcement-is-buying-its-way-into-our-breaches-1844306733

### Abortion and User Data

https://www.onlineabortionresources.org/blog/protecting-yourself-from-criminalization-for-self-managed-abortion
https://www.motherjones.com/politics/2022/02/meet-abortion-bans-new-best-friend-your-phone/
https://www.washingtonpost.com/technology/2022/05/04/abortion-digital-privacy/
https://jezebel.com/a-data-firm-is-tracking-people-who-visit-abortion-clini-1848875722
https://twitter.com/swodinsky/status/1521938727009927170

### Fighting Back

https://gizmodo.com/your-phone-is-a-goldmine-of-hidden-data-for-cops-heres-1843817740
https://twitter.com/swodinsky/status/1521940021485449216
https://gizmodo.com/how-to-cop-proof-your-phone-before-heading-to-a-protest-1843828887
https://twitter.com/swodinsky/status/1521351334339002369
