src/topics/misinformation.md, before:

---
title: Misinformation
description: "Understanding misinformation and how to counter it"
date: 2022-04-09 22:59:43.10 -4
---

## Links

### Dealing With Misinformation

https://firstdraftnews.org/articles/infodisorder-definitional-toolbox/

[Verifying Online Misinformation](https://firstdraftnews.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/Verifying_Online_Information_Digital_AW.pdf?x32994)

https://en.unesco.org/covid19/communicationinformationresponse/visualresources
https://en.unesco.org/covid19/communicationinformationresponse/videos
https://internews.org/resource/managing-misinformation-humanitarian-context
https://ec.europa.eu/digital-single-market/en/news/factsheet-tackling-online-disinformation
[A New Application of Social Impact in Social Media for Overcoming Fake News in Health](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7177765/)

[Internet regulation as media policy: Rethinking the question of digital communication platform governance](https://www.ingentaconnect.com/content/intellect/jdmp/2019/00000010/00000001/art00005#Refs)

[Fake news, fast and slow: Deliberation reduces belief in false (but not true) news headlines](https://psyarxiv.com/29b4j)

[Experimental Evidence for a Scalable Accuracy-Nudge Intervention](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/full/10.1177/0956797620939054?url_ver=Z39.88-2003&rfr_id=ori:rid:crossref.org&rfr_dat=cr_pub%20%200pubmed)

https://firstdraft.arist.co/courses/5ef5e5a67d406325a11c97dd

### Vaccine Misinformation

https://www.newyorker.com/news/letter-from-the-uk/the-fight-against-vaccine-misinformation
https://www.npr.org/2021/05/13/996570855/disinformation-dozen-test-facebooks-twitters-ability-to-curb-vaccine-hoaxes
https://www.economist.com/by-invitation/2021/12/03/melissa-fleming-and-jeremy-heimans-on-countering-vaccine-falsehoods
https://firstdraftnews.org/long-form-article/coronavirus-tools-and-guides-for-journalists/
[Disinfodemic](https://en.unesco.org/sites/default/files/disinfodemic_deciphering_covid19_disinformation.pdf)

https://www.socialscienceinaction.org/resources/key-considerations-online-information-mis-disinformation-context-covid-19/
https://firstdraftnews.org/latest/5-tips-ways-we-can-all-covid19-check-coronavirus-information-online-fake-disinformation-misinformation/
https://theconversation.com/how-to-address-coronavirus-misinformation-spreading-through-messaging-apps-and-email-134310
https://www.imperial.ac.uk/stories/coronavirus-misinformation/

### Journalistic Tools

https://en.unesco.org/fightfakenews
https://datajournalism.com/read/handbook/verification-3/
https://firstdraftnews.org/latest/tips-for-reporting-on-covid-19-coronavirus-and-slowing-the-spread-of-misinformation/
[Building trust: what works for news organizations](https://mediaengagement.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/02/CME-Report-Building-Trust.pdf)

### Identifying Misinformation

https://firstdraftnews.org/latest/how-to-analyze-facebook-data-for-misinformation-trends-and-narratives/
[Responsible Reporting](https://firstdraftnews.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/Responsible_Reporting_Digital_AW-1.pdf?x32994)

[Newsgathering and Monitoring Digital Misinformation](https://firstdraftnews.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/Newsgathering_and_Monitoring_Digital_AW3.pdf?x32994)

https://www.reuters.com/manipulatedmedia/en/

### The Flow of Misinformation

[Closed Groups, Messaging Apps, and Online Ads](https://firstdraftnews.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/11/Messaging_Apps_Digital_AW-1.pdf?x32994)

[The Oxygen of Amplification](https://datasociety.net/wp-content/uploads/2018/05/FULLREPORT_Oxygen_of_Amplification_DS.pdf)

https://datasociety.net/library/source-hacking-media-manipulation-in-practice/
https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b09vx0db

### Understanding Why People Believe Misinformation

[Understanding Information Disorder](https://firstdraftnews.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/Information_Disorder_Digital_AW.pdf?x32994)

https://www.climatechangecommunication.org/conspiracy-theory-handbook/

https://datasociety.net/library/searching-for-alternative-facts/
https://www.who.int/teams/risk-communication/infodemic-management/pre-conference-1st-who-infodemiology-conference
https://www.who.int/teams/risk-communication/infodemic-management/1st-who-infodemiology-conference
https://firstdraftnews.org/articles/the-psychology-of-misinformation-why-were-vulnerable/
https://www.npr.org/2019/07/18/743195213/facts-arent-enough-the-psychology-of-false-beliefs
https://knowledge.wharton.upenn.edu/article/build-fake-news-campaign/

Commit message:

Adding featured image to misinfo page

src/topics/misinformation.md, after:

---
title: Misinformation
description: "Understanding misinformation and how to counter it"
date: 2022-04-09 22:59:43.10 -4
tags:
  - Data
  - Reading
  - Journalism
  - COVID
  - Vaccines
featuredImage: "danger-misinfo.jpg"
featuredImageCredit: '"Misinformation" by 3dpete is marked with CC BY-ND 2.0.'
featuredImageLink: "https://www.flickr.com/photos/26867441@N07/6072467398"
featuredImageAlt: "Misinformation by 3dpete is a photo of a construction site with a wood-backed danger sign in red stating 'Danger due to Misinformation'"
---

## Links

### Dealing With Misinformation

https://firstdraftnews.org/articles/infodisorder-definitional-toolbox/

[Verifying Online Misinformation](https://firstdraftnews.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/Verifying_Online_Information_Digital_AW.pdf?x32994)

https://en.unesco.org/covid19/communicationinformationresponse/visualresources
https://en.unesco.org/covid19/communicationinformationresponse/videos
https://internews.org/resource/managing-misinformation-humanitarian-context
https://ec.europa.eu/digital-single-market/en/news/factsheet-tackling-online-disinformation
[A New Application of Social Impact in Social Media for Overcoming Fake News in Health](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7177765/)

[Internet regulation as media policy: Rethinking the question of digital communication platform governance](https://www.ingentaconnect.com/content/intellect/jdmp/2019/00000010/00000001/art00005#Refs)

[Fake news, fast and slow: Deliberation reduces belief in false (but not true) news headlines](https://psyarxiv.com/29b4j)

[Experimental Evidence for a Scalable Accuracy-Nudge Intervention](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/full/10.1177/0956797620939054?url_ver=Z39.88-2003&rfr_id=ori:rid:crossref.org&rfr_dat=cr_pub%20%200pubmed)

https://firstdraft.arist.co/courses/5ef5e5a67d406325a11c97dd

### Vaccine Misinformation

https://www.newyorker.com/news/letter-from-the-uk/the-fight-against-vaccine-misinformation
https://www.npr.org/2021/05/13/996570855/disinformation-dozen-test-facebooks-twitters-ability-to-curb-vaccine-hoaxes
https://www.economist.com/by-invitation/2021/12/03/melissa-fleming-and-jeremy-heimans-on-countering-vaccine-falsehoods
https://firstdraftnews.org/long-form-article/coronavirus-tools-and-guides-for-journalists/
[Disinfodemic](https://en.unesco.org/sites/default/files/disinfodemic_deciphering_covid19_disinformation.pdf)

https://www.socialscienceinaction.org/resources/key-considerations-online-information-mis-disinformation-context-covid-19/
https://firstdraftnews.org/latest/5-tips-ways-we-can-all-covid19-check-coronavirus-information-online-fake-disinformation-misinformation/
https://theconversation.com/how-to-address-coronavirus-misinformation-spreading-through-messaging-apps-and-email-134310
https://www.imperial.ac.uk/stories/coronavirus-misinformation/

### Journalistic Tools

https://en.unesco.org/fightfakenews
https://datajournalism.com/read/handbook/verification-3/
https://firstdraftnews.org/latest/tips-for-reporting-on-covid-19-coronavirus-and-slowing-the-spread-of-misinformation/
[Building trust: what works for news organizations](https://mediaengagement.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/02/CME-Report-Building-Trust.pdf)

### Identifying Misinformation

https://firstdraftnews.org/latest/how-to-analyze-facebook-data-for-misinformation-trends-and-narratives/
[Responsible Reporting](https://firstdraftnews.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/Responsible_Reporting_Digital_AW-1.pdf?x32994)

[Newsgathering and Monitoring Digital Misinformation](https://firstdraftnews.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/Newsgathering_and_Monitoring_Digital_AW3.pdf?x32994)

https://www.reuters.com/manipulatedmedia/en/

### The Flow of Misinformation

[Closed Groups, Messaging Apps, and Online Ads](https://firstdraftnews.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/11/Messaging_Apps_Digital_AW-1.pdf?x32994)

[The Oxygen of Amplification](https://datasociety.net/wp-content/uploads/2018/05/FULLREPORT_Oxygen_of_Amplification_DS.pdf)

https://datasociety.net/library/source-hacking-media-manipulation-in-practice/
https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b09vx0db

### Understanding Why People Believe Misinformation

[Understanding Information Disorder](https://firstdraftnews.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/Information_Disorder_Digital_AW.pdf?x32994)

https://www.climatechangecommunication.org/conspiracy-theory-handbook/

https://datasociety.net/library/searching-for-alternative-facts/
https://www.who.int/teams/risk-communication/infodemic-management/pre-conference-1st-who-infodemiology-conference
https://www.who.int/teams/risk-communication/infodemic-management/1st-who-infodemiology-conference
https://firstdraftnews.org/articles/the-psychology-of-misinformation-why-were-vulnerable/
https://www.npr.org/2019/07/18/743195213/facts-arent-enough-the-psychology-of-false-beliefs
https://knowledge.wharton.upenn.edu/article/build-fake-news-campaign/
