src/topics/student-loans.md, before:

---
title: Student Loans
description: "Understanding student loans and their impact on people"
date: 2022-04-27 22:59:43.10 -4
---

## Links

https://twitter.com/Chronotope/status/1519782915575533568
https://www.salon.com/2012/09/15/stop_calling_student_loans_financial_aid/?utm_source=facebook&utm_medium=socialflow

### Impact

https://www.propublica.org/article/colleges-flush-with-cash-saddle-poorest-students-with-debt
https://www.mic.com/articles/114234/the-student-debt-strike-movement-is-finally-getting-the-attention-it-deserves
https://www.buzzfeednews.com/article/annehelenpetersen/millennials-burnout-generation-debt-work
https://longreads.com/2021/12/01/debt-demands-a-body/
https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/05/upshot/americans-are-having-fewer-babies-they-told-us-why.html
https://highline.huffingtonpost.com/articles/en/poor-millennials/
https://www.huffpost.com/entry/student-loan-debt-suicides_b_1638972
https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2015/12/the-silicon-valley-suicides/413140/
https://www.usnews.com/education/blogs/student-loan-ranger/articles/how-student-loan-debt-affects-women
https://www.vice.com/en/article/5gjy9z/a-millennials-guide-to-planning-for-retirement-815
https://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/24/business/economy/more-americans-are-renting-and-paying-more-as-homeownership-falls.html
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2016-05-25/these-are-the-countries-where-millennials-will-work-themselves-to-death
https://www.dailydot.com/unclick/food-stamps-millennials-fight-for-15/?fb=ss&prtnr=salon

### Payment Difficulties

https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/grade-point/wp/2016/06/17/the-government-offers-130-billion-to-college-students-why-arent-more-applying-for-it/
https://www.wsj.com/articles/student-debt-payback-lags-1442189980?mod=e2fb
https://www.theguardian.com/education/2015/feb/23/student-debt-for-profit-colleges
https://www.cnbc.com/2015/06/15/the-high-economic-and-social-costs-of-student-loan-debt.html


### Repayment Approaches

https://associationsnow.com/2015/12/repay-employees-student-loans/
https://www.cnn.com/2019/04/22/politics/elizabeth-warren-student-debt-college-tuition-plan/index.html
https://gizmodo.com/u-s-students-granted-up-to-3-5-billion-in-debt-relief-1710242421
https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/wonk/wp/2015/01/20/heres-what-you-need-to-know-about-obamas-new-plan-to-help-families-afford-college/?variant=c44b726edf25a662

### Attacks on Student Loan Protections

https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/grade-point/wp/2017/03/17/trump-administration-rolls-back-protections-for-people-in-default-on-student-loans/

### Flaws of the System

https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2015-03-04/this-fed-official-just-perfectly-described-why-student-loans-are-a-terrible-investment
https://revealnews.org/podcast/whos-getting-rich-off-your-student-debt/
https://www.wsj.com/articles/al-lord-profited-when-college-tuition-rose-he-is-paying-for-it-11627048831
https://qz.com/482462/not-only-is-it-not-worth-it-to-get-a-masters-degree-in-fine-arts-and-humanities-you-may-actually-see-your-lifetime-earnings-drop/
https://hbr.org/2016/05/two-thirds-of-college-grads-struggle-to-launch-their-careers
https://qz.com/570078/americas-millennials-are-in-crisis-and-its-not-all-in-their-heads/
https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/get-there/wp/2015/07/09/these-20-schools-are-responsible-for-a-fifth-of-all-graduate-school-debt/
https://www.mic.com/articles/114208/happy-college-acceptance-day-you-re-going-to-be-in-debt-forever
https://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/13/magazine/is-college-tuition-too-high.html
https://www.buzzfeednews.com/article/mollyhensleyclancy/the-problem-with-too-big-to-fail-colleges#.de45nydWy

Commit message:

Improve Student loan page slightly

src/topics/student-loans.md, after:

---
title: Student Loans
description: "Understanding student loans and their impact on people"
date: 2022-04-27 22:59:43.10 -4
tags:
  - Banking
  - Loans
  - Generational Strife
  - Millennials
  - College
  - University
  - Laws and Regulations
featuredImage: "student-loan-marchers.jpg"
featuredImageCredit: '"University of East Anglia (UEA) students protesting against the privatisation of student loans" by Roger Blackwell is marked with CC BY 2.0.'
featuredImageLink: "https://www.flickr.com/photos/10630857@N04/12343473805"
featuredImageAlt: "Students march in protest holding red boxes above their heads with the words Student Debt on printed pages attached to the front of the boxes"
---

## Links

### Impact

https://www.propublica.org/article/colleges-flush-with-cash-saddle-poorest-students-with-debt
https://www.mic.com/articles/114234/the-student-debt-strike-movement-is-finally-getting-the-attention-it-deserves
https://www.buzzfeednews.com/article/annehelenpetersen/millennials-burnout-generation-debt-work
https://longreads.com/2021/12/01/debt-demands-a-body/
https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/05/upshot/americans-are-having-fewer-babies-they-told-us-why.html
https://highline.huffingtonpost.com/articles/en/poor-millennials/
https://www.huffpost.com/entry/student-loan-debt-suicides_b_1638972
https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2015/12/the-silicon-valley-suicides/413140/
https://www.usnews.com/education/blogs/student-loan-ranger/articles/how-student-loan-debt-affects-women
https://www.vice.com/en/article/5gjy9z/a-millennials-guide-to-planning-for-retirement-815
https://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/24/business/economy/more-americans-are-renting-and-paying-more-as-homeownership-falls.html
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2016-05-25/these-are-the-countries-where-millennials-will-work-themselves-to-death
https://www.dailydot.com/unclick/food-stamps-millennials-fight-for-15/?fb=ss&prtnr=salon

### Payment Difficulties

https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/grade-point/wp/2016/06/17/the-government-offers-130-billion-to-college-students-why-arent-more-applying-for-it/
https://www.wsj.com/articles/student-debt-payback-lags-1442189980?mod=e2fb
https://www.theguardian.com/education/2015/feb/23/student-debt-for-profit-colleges
https://www.cnbc.com/2015/06/15/the-high-economic-and-social-costs-of-student-loan-debt.html


### Repayment Approaches

https://associationsnow.com/2015/12/repay-employees-student-loans/
https://www.cnn.com/2019/04/22/politics/elizabeth-warren-student-debt-college-tuition-plan/index.html
https://gizmodo.com/u-s-students-granted-up-to-3-5-billion-in-debt-relief-1710242421
https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/wonk/wp/2015/01/20/heres-what-you-need-to-know-about-obamas-new-plan-to-help-families-afford-college/?variant=c44b726edf25a662

### Attacks on Student Loan Protections

https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/grade-point/wp/2017/03/17/trump-administration-rolls-back-protections-for-people-in-default-on-student-loans/

### Flaws of the System

https://www.salon.com/2012/09/15/stop_calling_student_loans_financial_aid/?utm_source=facebook&utm_medium=socialflow
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2015-03-04/this-fed-official-just-perfectly-described-why-student-loans-are-a-terrible-investment
https://revealnews.org/podcast/whos-getting-rich-off-your-student-debt/
https://www.wsj.com/articles/al-lord-profited-when-college-tuition-rose-he-is-paying-for-it-11627048831
https://qz.com/482462/not-only-is-it-not-worth-it-to-get-a-masters-degree-in-fine-arts-and-humanities-you-may-actually-see-your-lifetime-earnings-drop/
https://hbr.org/2016/05/two-thirds-of-college-grads-struggle-to-launch-their-careers
https://qz.com/570078/americas-millennials-are-in-crisis-and-its-not-all-in-their-heads/
https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/get-there/wp/2015/07/09/these-20-schools-are-responsible-for-a-fifth-of-all-graduate-school-debt/
https://www.mic.com/articles/114208/happy-college-acceptance-day-you-re-going-to-be-in-debt-forever
https://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/13/magazine/is-college-tuition-too-high.html
https://www.buzzfeednews.com/article/mollyhensleyclancy/the-problem-with-too-big-to-fail-colleges#.de45nydWy
