src/topics/trans-kids-gender-affirming-care.md, before:

---
title: "Trans Kids, Puberty Blockers, and Gender Affirming Care"
description: "Understanding what puberty blockers do and why they are important."
date: 2022-07-05 09:59:43.10 -4
tags:
  - LGBTQ
  - LGBTQIA
  - LGBTQIA plus
  - Trans
  - Transgender
  - Puberty Blockers
  - Gender Affirming
  - Gender Affirming Care
  - Trans Kids
  - "Dont Say Gay"
  - DontSayGay
featuredImage: "medical_bureaucracy.png"
featuredImageCredit: 'Image generated by MidJourney from prompt: "medical bureaucracy"'
featuredImageLink: "https://www.midjourney.com"
featuredImageAlt: "AI-generated artistic rendition of a medical bureaucracy"
---

## Journalism

https://www.erininthemorning.com/p/opinion-washington-post-editorial
https://www.vice.com/en/article/m7gg54/florida-transgender-healthcare-minors
https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2018/oct/22/rapid-onset-gender-dysphoria-is-a-poisonous-lie-used-to-discredit-trans-people
https://www.cnn.com/2022/04/21/health/gender-affirming-care/index.html

### Videos

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C7XYfffLMEQ
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6r-Uga_oR28

## Politics

https://www.khou.com/article/news/local/texas/judge-child-abuse-investgations-parents-trans-kids/285-51828824-197d-498d-ae31-aca25b6bcec3
https://www.theguardian.com/world/2021/jul/28/anti-trans-video-los-angeles-protest-wi-spa
https://newrepublic.com/article/163113/behind-gop-strategy-outlaw-trans-youth
https://jewishcurrents.org/the-anti-trans-lobbys-real-agenda
https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2021/mar/30/trans-kids-rights-republican-state-bills-healthcare-sports
https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2021/jan/31/as-the-father-of-a-trans-man-i-fear-for-the-consequences-of-this-cruel-judgment
https://www.teenvogue.com/story/united-states-government-transphobia-trans-existence-transcendence
https://www.npr.org/2022/03/21/1087937431/a-third-of-trans-youth-are-at-risk-of-losing-gender-affirming-care-study-says
https://www.scottishlegal.com/articles/dr-sandra-duffy-puberty-blockers-ruling-will-have-chilling-effect
https://erininthemorn.substack.com/p/first-period-anti-trans-legislative
https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/25/us/politics/transgender-laws-republicans.html
http://ettingermentum.news/p/transphobia-fails-again

## Science

https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/what-the-science-on-gender-affirming-care-for-transgender-kids-really-shows/
https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/evidence-undermines-rapid-onset-gender-dysphoria-claims/
https://massivesci.com/articles/kale-edmiston-transgender-neuroscience/
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0273229706000773
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352154620301509

<a href="https://nyaspubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1196/annals.1308.017" target="_blank">Adolescence: Vulnerable Period for Stress-Induced Prefrontal Cortical Function? Introduction to Part IV</a>

<a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6057016/" target="_blank">https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6057016/</a>

<a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7073269/" target="_blank">Pubertal Suppression for Transgender Youth and Risk of Suicidal Ideation</a>

<a href="https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/anti-trans-laws-will-have-a-chilling-effect-on-medicine/" target="_blank">https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/anti-trans-laws-will-have-a-chilling-effect-on-medicine/</a>

<a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6806792/" target="_blank">Buying time or arresting development?</a>

https://adc.bmj.com/content/104/6/509
https://publications.aap.org/pediatrics/article/142/4/e20182162/37381/Ensuring-Comprehensive-Care-and-Support-for

<a href="https://www.liebertpub.com/doi/10.1089/trgh.2020.0006" target="_blank">Chen, D., et al. (2020) Evaluate Neurodevelopmental Effects of Pubertal Suppression in Transgender Youth. Transgender Health.</a>

https://psychcentral.com/lib/there-is-no-evidence-that-rapid-onset-gender-dysphoria-exists#1
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0306453015000943?casa_token=cs2uTv6X96cAAAAA%3AfBmY27NAacdJ46piKDy0-4_zo3X8js_FBbwtEMlb3lsUxsW2nBjuClD799vpbZm1oq20YvGfNIU

<a href="https://academic.oup.com/jcem/article/102/11/3869/4157558" target="_blank">Endocrine Treatment of Gender-Dysphoric/Gender-Incongruent Persons: An Endocrine Society Clinical Practice Guideline</a>

https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fnhum.2017.00528/full
https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.12.01.20241653v1.full

<a href="https://www.liebertpub.com/doi/10.1089/trgh.2020.0006" target="_blank">Consensus Parameter: Research Methodologies to Evaluate Neurodevelopmental Effects of Pubertal Suppression in Transgender Youth</a>

<a href="https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35212746/" target="_blank">Mental Health Outcomes in Transgender and Nonbinary Youths Receiving Gender-Affirming Care</a>

- https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s13178-018-0335-z
- https://www.nbcnews.com/feature/nbc-out/no-link-between-trans-inclusive-policies-bathroom-safety-study-finds-n911106
- https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0929693X24001763

### The Cass Review

- https://transactual.org.uk/advocacy/critiques-of-the-cass-review/
- https://www.thepinknews.com/2024/11/12/educational-psychologists-open-letter-cass-review-trans/

<a href="https://law.yale.edu/sites/default/files/documents/integrity-project_cass-response.pdf" target="_blank">An Evidence-Based Critique of “The Cass Review” on Gender-affirming Care for Adolescent Gender Dysphoria</a>

- https://osf.io/preprints/osf/uhndk
- https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/the-u-k-s-cass-review-badly-fails-trans-children/
- https://www.erininthemorning.com/p/british-medical-association-calls

## Gender Affirming Care Decreasing Suicide

https://19thnews.org/2024/09/anti-trans-laws-suicide-trans-nonbinary-youth/
https://www.tennessean.com/story/opinion/2022/03/17/anti-trans-legislation-in-tennessee-sparks-a-mental-health-crisis/7078412001/
https://williamsinstitute.law.ucla.edu/publications/suicidality-transgender-adults/
https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/23/health/transgender-puberty-blockers-suicide-study/index.html
https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamapsychiatry/article-abstract/2749479
https://whatweknow.inequality.cornell.edu/topics/lgbt-equality/what-does-the-scholarly-research-say-about-the-well-being-of-transgender-people/
https://www.npr.org/sections/shots-health-news/2024/09/25/nx-s1-5127347/more-trans-teens-attempted-suicide-after-states-passed-anti-trans-laws-a-study-shows

<a href="https://www.researchgate.net/publication/284551812_Impacts_of_Strong_Parental_Support_for_Trans_Youth" target="_blank">Impacts of Strong Parental Support for Trans Youth</a>

<a href="https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/1090198120965504" target="_blank">Perspectives of Transgender Youth on Parental Support</a>

<a href="http://karger.com/hrp/article/91/6/357/162902/Use-of-Gonadotropin-Releasing-Hormone-Analogs-in" target="_blank">Use of Gonadotropin-Releasing Hormone Analogs in Children: Update by an International Consortium: "No differences in clinical indices of pubertal progression were seen in studies comparing monthly preparations and 2 doses of the 3-monthly preparations of leuprolide depot"</a>

## Useful Additional References

https://www.thelancet.com/journals/lanchi/article/PIIS2352-4642(21)00139-5/fulltext
https://transjournalists.org/style-guide/
https://threadreaderapp.com/thread/1554508212300386304.html
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HdT1PvJDRo4
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yCxqdhZkxCo
https://www.vice.com/en/article/mbdx7n/100-ways-be-trans-ally-tips
https://tdor.translivesmatter.info/pages/about
https://nytletter.com

<hr />

<img src="/img/not-a-debate.jpg" alt="Image stating 'Trans Lives are not a Debate'" /><br />
<em>Image by Fox Fisher</em>

<hr />

Commit message:

Adding a bunch of links about trans kids

src/topics/trans-kids-gender-affirming-care.md, after:

---
title: "Trans Kids, Puberty Blockers, and Gender Affirming Care"
description: "Understanding what puberty blockers do and why they are important."
date: 2022-07-05 09:59:43.10 -4
tags:
  - LGBTQ
  - LGBTQIA
  - LGBTQIA plus
  - Trans
  - Transgender
  - Puberty Blockers
  - Gender Affirming
  - Gender Affirming Care
  - Trans Kids
  - "Dont Say Gay"
  - DontSayGay
featuredImage: "medical_bureaucracy.png"
featuredImageCredit: 'Image generated by MidJourney from prompt: "medical bureaucracy"'
featuredImageLink: "https://www.midjourney.com"
featuredImageAlt: "AI-generated artistic rendition of a medical bureaucracy"
---

## Journalism

https://www.erininthemorning.com/p/opinion-washington-post-editorial
https://www.vice.com/en/article/m7gg54/florida-transgender-healthcare-minors
https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2018/oct/22/rapid-onset-gender-dysphoria-is-a-poisonous-lie-used-to-discredit-trans-people
https://www.cnn.com/2022/04/21/health/gender-affirming-care/index.html

### Videos

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C7XYfffLMEQ
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6r-Uga_oR28

## Politics

https://www.khou.com/article/news/local/texas/judge-child-abuse-investgations-parents-trans-kids/285-51828824-197d-498d-ae31-aca25b6bcec3
https://www.theguardian.com/world/2021/jul/28/anti-trans-video-los-angeles-protest-wi-spa
https://newrepublic.com/article/163113/behind-gop-strategy-outlaw-trans-youth
https://jewishcurrents.org/the-anti-trans-lobbys-real-agenda
https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2021/mar/30/trans-kids-rights-republican-state-bills-healthcare-sports
https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2021/jan/31/as-the-father-of-a-trans-man-i-fear-for-the-consequences-of-this-cruel-judgment
https://www.teenvogue.com/story/united-states-government-transphobia-trans-existence-transcendence
https://www.npr.org/2022/03/21/1087937431/a-third-of-trans-youth-are-at-risk-of-losing-gender-affirming-care-study-says
https://www.scottishlegal.com/articles/dr-sandra-duffy-puberty-blockers-ruling-will-have-chilling-effect
https://erininthemorn.substack.com/p/first-period-anti-trans-legislative
https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/25/us/politics/transgender-laws-republicans.html
http://ettingermentum.news/p/transphobia-fails-again
https://bulletin.appliedtransstudies.org/article/1/1-2/3/

## Science

https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/what-the-science-on-gender-affirming-care-for-transgender-kids-really-shows/
https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/evidence-undermines-rapid-onset-gender-dysphoria-claims/
https://massivesci.com/articles/kale-edmiston-transgender-neuroscience/
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0273229706000773
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352154620301509
https://www.researchgate.net/publication/346443481_The_Informed_Consent_Model_of_Care_for_Accessing_Gender-Affirming_Hormone_Therapy_Is_Associated_With_High_Patient_Satisfaction

<a href="https://nyaspubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1196/annals.1308.017" target="_blank">Adolescence: Vulnerable Period for Stress-Induced Prefrontal Cortical Function? Introduction to Part IV</a>

<a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6057016/" target="_blank">https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6057016/</a>

<a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7073269/" target="_blank">Pubertal Suppression for Transgender Youth and Risk of Suicidal Ideation</a>

<a href="https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/anti-trans-laws-will-have-a-chilling-effect-on-medicine/" target="_blank">https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/anti-trans-laws-will-have-a-chilling-effect-on-medicine/</a>

<a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6806792/" target="_blank">Buying time or arresting development?</a>

https://adc.bmj.com/content/104/6/509
https://publications.aap.org/pediatrics/article/142/4/e20182162/37381/Ensuring-Comprehensive-Care-and-Support-for

<a href="https://www.liebertpub.com/doi/10.1089/trgh.2020.0006" target="_blank">Chen, D., et al. (2020) Evaluate Neurodevelopmental Effects of Pubertal Suppression in Transgender Youth. Transgender Health.</a>

https://psychcentral.com/lib/there-is-no-evidence-that-rapid-onset-gender-dysphoria-exists#1
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0306453015000943?casa_token=cs2uTv6X96cAAAAA%3AfBmY27NAacdJ46piKDy0-4_zo3X8js_FBbwtEMlb3lsUxsW2nBjuClD799vpbZm1oq20YvGfNIU

<a href="https://academic.oup.com/jcem/article/102/11/3869/4157558" target="_blank">Endocrine Treatment of Gender-Dysphoric/Gender-Incongruent Persons: An Endocrine Society Clinical Practice Guideline</a>

https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fnhum.2017.00528/full
https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.12.01.20241653v1.full

<a href="https://www.liebertpub.com/doi/10.1089/trgh.2020.0006" target="_blank">Consensus Parameter: Research Methodologies to Evaluate Neurodevelopmental Effects of Pubertal Suppression in Transgender Youth</a>

<a href="https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35212746/" target="_blank">Mental Health Outcomes in Transgender and Nonbinary Youths Receiving Gender-Affirming Care</a>

<a href="https://otdchile.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/06/Experiences-of-Puberty-and-Puberty-Blockers-Insights-From-Trans-Children-Trans-Adolescents-and-Their-Parents-.pdf" target="_blank">Experiences of Puberty and Puberty Blockers: Insights From Trans Children, Trans Adolescents, and Their Parents [PDF]</a>

- https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s13178-018-0335-z
- https://www.nbcnews.com/feature/nbc-out/no-link-between-trans-inclusive-policies-bathroom-safety-study-finds-n911106
- https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0929693X24001763
- https://publications.aap.org/pediatrics/article/150/2/e2021056082/186992/Gender-Identity-5-Years-After-Social-Transition
- https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/chso.12625
- https://acamh.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/camh.12437

### The Cass Review

- https://transactual.org.uk/advocacy/critiques-of-the-cass-review/
- https://www.thepinknews.com/2024/11/12/educational-psychologists-open-letter-cass-review-trans/

<a href="https://law.yale.edu/sites/default/files/documents/integrity-project_cass-response.pdf" target="_blank">An Evidence-Based Critique of “The Cass Review” on Gender-affirming Care for Adolescent Gender Dysphoria</a>

- https://osf.io/preprints/osf/uhndk
- https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/the-u-k-s-cass-review-badly-fails-trans-children/
- https://www.erininthemorning.com/p/british-medical-association-calls

## Gender Affirming Care Decreasing Suicide

https://19thnews.org/2024/09/anti-trans-laws-suicide-trans-nonbinary-youth/
https://www.tennessean.com/story/opinion/2022/03/17/anti-trans-legislation-in-tennessee-sparks-a-mental-health-crisis/7078412001/
https://williamsinstitute.law.ucla.edu/publications/suicidality-transgender-adults/
https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/23/health/transgender-puberty-blockers-suicide-study/index.html
https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamapsychiatry/article-abstract/2749479
https://whatweknow.inequality.cornell.edu/topics/lgbt-equality/what-does-the-scholarly-research-say-about-the-well-being-of-transgender-people/
https://www.npr.org/sections/shots-health-news/2024/09/25/nx-s1-5127347/more-trans-teens-attempted-suicide-after-states-passed-anti-trans-laws-a-study-shows

<a href="https://www.researchgate.net/publication/284551812_Impacts_of_Strong_Parental_Support_for_Trans_Youth" target="_blank">Impacts of Strong Parental Support for Trans Youth</a>

<a href="https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/1090198120965504" target="_blank">Perspectives of Transgender Youth on Parental Support</a>

<a href="http://karger.com/hrp/article/91/6/357/162902/Use-of-Gonadotropin-Releasing-Hormone-Analogs-in" target="_blank">Use of Gonadotropin-Releasing Hormone Analogs in Children: Update by an International Consortium: "No differences in clinical indices of pubertal progression were seen in studies comparing monthly preparations and 2 doses of the 3-monthly preparations of leuprolide depot"</a>

## Useful Additional References

https://www.thelancet.com/journals/lanchi/article/PIIS2352-4642(21)00139-5/fulltext
https://transjournalists.org/style-guide/
https://threadreaderapp.com/thread/1554508212300386304.html
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HdT1PvJDRo4
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yCxqdhZkxCo
https://www.vice.com/en/article/mbdx7n/100-ways-be-trans-ally-tips
https://tdor.translivesmatter.info/pages/about
https://nytletter.com
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqeFeqInoXc

<hr />

<img src="/img/not-a-debate.jpg" alt="Image stating 'Trans Lives are not a Debate'" /><br />
<em>Image by Fox Fisher</em>

<hr />
